“TikTok is a misinformation minefield,” says journalist Queenie Wong. [25]

19.4% of TikTok videos contain misinformation according to a Sep. 2022 report. From “tutorials” to make dangerous drugs at home to extremist false political claims to misleading clips of speeches to “deep fake” videos, TikTok not only contains but promotes dangerous, inaccurate, and inappropriate information. [26]

While misinformation is a problem in and of itself, the concern is magnified significantly because, according to Google data, TikTok is being used as the primary search engine of Gen Z, so much so that the Wall Street Journal called the app the “new Google.” [26]

Researchers from the University of Regina note that TikTok is an especially difficult case because the platform only hosts videos: “misinformation videos may pose a uniquely difficult target for debunking attempts because they often appear highly immersive, authentic, and relatable, which might cause people to process videos more superficially and believe them more readily.” [27]

“We shouldn’t be playing Whac-a-Mole with every individual piece of content, because it feels like we’re playing a losing game and there are much bigger battles to fight. But this stuff is really dangerous, even though it feels like a fact checker or reverse image search would debunk it in two seconds. It’s fundamentally feeding into this constant drip, drip, drip of stuff that’s reinforcing your worldview,” says Claire Wardle, Co-director of the Information Futures Lab at Brown University. Banning TikTok is much more effective than the “Whac-a-Mole” approach to misinformation. [28]

Further, TikTok is unique in promoting challenges that are dangerous and deadly. The “Tide Pod challenge” put TikTok on the radar in 2018 with an increase in calls to poison control centers, The dangerous and deadly challenge asked users to bite down on a laundry detergent packet, which lead to the consumption of toxic chemicals that seriously burn the mouth, esophagus and respiratory tract. [29] [30]

Despite at least six deaths from the laundry pod challenge, TikTok persists in promoting dangerous challenges from daring people to shave down their teeth with nail files to the “Coronavirus challenge” in which users licked public toilet seats and subway hand grips to see who could contract COVID-19 first (not to mention any number of other communicable diseases). [29] [30] [31]

The “Borg challenge” called for mixing alcohol with caffeine, electrolytes, and water and led to the hospitalization of many college students. The “Blackout challenge” dared kids to choke each other to the point of unconsciousness and resulted in at least 20 deaths. The “Beezin’ challenge” asked young people to put menthol or peppermint lip balm on their eyelids under the mistaken impression that doing so would increase their alcohol or drug “buzz;” though the act could also cause blindness. And, in 2024, a teen’s death was confirmed to be caused by participation in the “One Chip” challenge, which asks people to eat a “Paqui brand chip… dusted with the extremely hot Carolina Reaper and Naga Viper peppers.” [32] [60]

No matter how many fact-checking and safety notices companies release to consumers, click-hungry and impressionable people will be misinformed and endanger themselves on TikTok. Taking away the platform is the only answer, and the American government has the authority to ban platforms linked to foreign adversaries. [33]